Fix exim4 auth (#304)
canonical/ubuntu-server-documentation: how-to/mail-services/install-exim4.md

sudo dpkg-reconfigure exim4-config
```

> This displays a "wizard" user interface for configuring the software. One important question in this configuration is whether exim4 should use split configuration files, or a single configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This displays a "wizard" user interface for configuring the software. One important question in this configuration is whether Exim4 should split the configuration over multiple files, or use a single configuration file.
```

If using multiple configuration files, then the configuration will be split in a directory structure under `/etc/exim4/conf.d`, like so:
```text
/etc/exim4/
└── conf.d
    ├── acl
    ├── auth
    ├── main
    ├── retry
    ├── rewrite
    ├── router
    └── transport
```

> Each subdirectory will contain one or more individual configuration files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each subdirectory contains one or more individual configuration files.
```

> If, however, exim4 was setup to use a single configuration file (which is the default), then that file will be `/etc/exim4/exim4.conf.template`. It will essentially be as if all individual configuration files from the previous layout were concatenated into a big single file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If, however, Exim4 was set up to use a single configuration file, then that file will be `/etc/exim4/exim4.conf.template`. It will essentially be as if all individual configuration files from the previous layout were concatenated into one file.
```

```{note}

> The default configuration layout for exim4 is the single configuration file one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default configuration layout for exim4 is the single configuration file one.
```
```suggestion
The default configuration layout for Exim4 is the single configuration file one.
```

> ```

Reviewer: I think this makes more logical sense to be up where you mention the two options

> In any of these scenarios, after making a change to the configuration, the following command must be executed to update the actual configuration file that exim4 will use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In any of these scenarios, after making a change to the configuration, the following command must be executed to update the actual configuration file that Exim4 will use:
```

```text
sudo update-exim4.conf
```

> The `update-exim4.conf` command will update the master configuration file stored in `/var/lib/exim4/config.autogenerated`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `update-exim4.conf` command updates the master configuration file stored in `/var/lib/exim4/config.autogenerated`.
```

Author: I changed the text to avoid using that term.

  .endif
```

> This will enable the `PLAIN` and `LOGIN` authentication mechanisms via `saslauthd`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This enables the `PLAIN` and `LOGIN` authentication mechanisms via `saslauthd`.
```

```text
$ echo -n dWJ1bnR1c2VjcmV0 | base64 -d; echo
ubuntusecret
```

To test the `PLAIN` mechanism, add the `-m plain` command-line option:
```text
/usr/lib/cyrus/bin/smtptest -t "" -a ubuntu -w ubuntusecret -m plain n-exim.lxd
```

In the new output, `PLAIN` was selected:
```text
S: 220 n-exim ESMTP Exim 4.97 Ubuntu Mon, 23 Jun 2025 21:15:39 +0000
C: EHLO smtptest
S: 250-n-exim Hello n-exim.lxd [10.10.17.9]
S: 250-SIZE 52428800
S: 250-8BITMIME
S: 250-PIPELINING
S: 250-PIPECONNECT
S: 250-CHUNKING
S: 250-STARTTLS
S: 250-PRDR
S: 250 HELP
C: STARTTLS
S: 220 TLS go ahead
verify error:num=18:self-signed certificate
TLS connection established: TLSv1.3 with cipher TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384 (256/256 bits)
C: EHLO smtptest
S: 250-n-exim Hello n-exim.lxd [10.10.17.9]
S: 250-SIZE 52428800
S: 250-8BITMIME
S: 250-PIPELINING
S: 250-PIPECONNECT
S: 250-AUTH PLAIN LOGIN
S: 250-CHUNKING
S: 250-PRDR
S: 250 HELP
C: AUTH PLAIN AHVidW50dQB1YnVudHVzZWNyZXQ=
S: 235 Authentication succeeded
Authenticated.
Security strength factor: 256
```

### Troubleshooting tips

Here are some troubleshooting tips.

#### Permissions

>    * If using `saslauthd`: Can the `Debian-exim` user read and write to the `saslauthd` socket in `/run/saslauthd/mux` socket?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If using `saslauthd`: Can the `Debian-exim` user read and write to the `saslauthd` socket in `/run/saslauthd/mux` socket?
```

>    * If using `/etc/exim4/passwd`: Can the `Debian-exim` user read this file?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If using `/etc/exim4/passwd`: Can the `Debian-exim` user read this file?
```
